5 reasons to choose iOS Mobile App Development



When it comes to creating an app, there are two major options – Android or iOS platforms. Now a lot of people are confused about which platform best suits their requirement. Well, it really depends on your objectives. You could create an app for the sheer fun of it. Or you could create one as a strategic part of driving business growth and generating revenue. Statistica reported approximately 3.8 million apps on Google Play Store and 2 million apps on Apple’s App Store. But for many developers, the popular choice is iOS applications. Here are a few reasons why.

High ROI
According to a report by Economic Times, the revenue from app sales was estimated at about $47 million in Q1 2018. With the app market ranging in the whopping millions, it would be a shame not to leverage the opportunity for profits. While quality and an incredible UI/UX interface are paramount, iOS applications help make profits through app purchases. As logic goes, Apple as a brand caters to people with considerable disposable income and a taste for quality. These include business officials, entrepreneurs, C-suite executives, and the like. Given a high-income target market, it’s no surprise that Apple users can and will purchase apps that will offer them value. In fact, in-app purchases are on the rise and developing an iOS application at this point is a great way to reach a large, well-defined audience, and also rake in some revenue. 


Superior Security
We live in a digital world where safeguarding user privacy and personal details are easier said than done. This makes it very important for apps to ensure digital security by adhering to regulatory rules and guidelines. Apple, as a brand, is known for its strict and controlled environment on user data – called Differential Privacy. iOS applications are also much more resistant to malware and virus attacks as compared to Android. Apple uses a technique called ‘sandboxing’ to ensure that every app has restricted access in interacting with other apps. So, should there be a malware attack, it doesn’t spread through to other systems, thereby curbing the effect. Apart from this, iOS applications are also built in accordance with rigid norms that protect it from malware and other viruses. This ethos makes iOS a secured and preferred platform as compared to others. 


Eliminating Compatibility Issues
Here’s the thing. In a word dominated by gadgets, it’s imperative that apps fit and seamlessly work with different devices whether it be a mobile phone, a tab, a laptop, or an eBook reader. iOS applications can do this perfectly. Unlike other platforms, iOS apps can seamlessly fit within the existing Apple ecosystem. This eliminates compatibility issues. It also enables users to access the same app with existing updates from any of the other Apple devices, calling for excellent user-satisfaction and ease. 


Higher User Adoption
According to a report from Sensor Tower, the App store had generated twice the revenue (to the tune of almost $22.6 billion) as compared to that of Google Play on just half of the downloads in the first half of 2018. The increasing profitability in the App store can be attributed to a few factors, one of them being high-user adoption. Apple customers have high retention and are largely patrons of the brand. They rarely ever switch from Apple, believe in quality, and certainly don’t mind paying for it. This coupled along with the benefits of superior UI/UX interfaces, high-security, and easy access makes iOS applications a high-selling ticket for any business that’s looking to make an impact in the app space. 


Unbeatable Quality
Clearly, apps can be monetised if created right, and that means delivery quality! While Android apps outnumber Apple apps, it also remains an undisputed fact that iOS based applications have better quality. Whether it’s gaming, finance functions, weather forecasts, or news related apps – those with iOS application developments ensure ease-of-use, better experiences, and thereby, a superior quality as compared to Android apps. And where revenue is concerned, this is one facet that developers can’t ignore. 


If you’re ready to monetise the power of apps or need expert help in developing iOS applications, you’ve come to the right place. Entrust our skilled iOS application development team to do the work while you reap the rewards. Visit us to know more about our custom mobile application development services that cover the entire development cycle, from concept to distribution.